
* Buying a share in a business means you are purchasing a portion (or percentage interest) of that business. You are then entitled to a portion of that business’s future earnings.
* Figuring out what a business is worth involves estimating (okay, guessing) how much the business will earn in the future.
* The earnings from your share of the profits must give you more money than you would receive by placing that same amount of money in a risk-free 10-year U.S. government bond. 
* Stock prices move around wildly over very short periods of time. This does not mean that the values of the underlying companies have changed very much during that same period. In effect, the stock market acts very much like a crazy guy named Mr. Market.
* It is a good idea to buy shares of a company at a big discount to your estimated value of those shares. Buying shares at a large discount to value will provide you with a large margin of safety and lead to safe and consistently profitable investments.
* Paying a bargain price when you purchase a share in a business is a good thing. One way to do this is to purchase a business that earns more relative to the price you are paying rather than less. In other words, a higher earnings yield is better than a lower one. Buying a share of a good business is better than buying a share of a bad business. One way to do this is to purchase a business that can invest its own money at high rates of return rather than purchasing a business that can only invest at lower ones. In other words, businesses that earn a high return on capital are better than businesses that earn a low return on capital. Buying good businesses at bargain prices is the secret to making lots of money.
* In other words, what would happen if we decided to only buy shares in good businesses (ones with high returns on capital) but only when they were available at bargain prices (priced to give us a high earnings yield)? What would happen? Well, I’ll tell you what would happen: We would make a lot of money! (Or as Graham might put it, “The profits would be quite satisfactory!”)
* Ben Graham had a “magic formula.” Graham figured that purchases that could meet the strict requirements of his formula were likely to be, on average, bargains—bargains created by Mr. Market’s practically giving away businesses at unreasonably low prices.Today, few companies meet the strict requirements outlined by Graham.  We have designed a new magic formula—a formula that seeks to find good companies at bargain prices.The new formula appears to work. In fact, it appears to work too well.Before piling every penny we have into the magic formula, we should probably examine the results more closely. The magic formula works for companies both large and small.The magic formula was extensively tested. The great returns do not appear to be a matter of luck. The magic formula ranks stocks in order. As a result, there should always be plenty of highly ranked stocks to choose from. The magic formula has been an incredibly accurate indicator of how a group of stocks will perform in the future! The magic formula appears to work very well over the long term. The magic formula often doesn’t work for several years in a row. Most investors won’t (or can’t) stick with a strategy that hasn’t worked for several years in a row. For the magic formula to work for you, you must believe that it will work and maintain a long-term investment horizon.
* The magic formula chooses companies through a ranking system. Those companies that have both a high return on capital and a high earnings yield are the ones that the formula ranks as best. Put more simply, the formula is systematically helping us find above-average companies that we can buy at below-average prices. In short, companies that achieve a high return on capital are likely to have a special advantage of some kind. That special advantage keeps competitors from destroying the ability to earn above-average profits. So by eliminating companies that earn ordinary or poor returns on capital, the magic formula starts with a group of companies that have a high return on capital. Most people and businesses can’t find investments that will earn very high rates of return. A company that can earn a high return on capital is therefore very special. Companies that earn a high return on capital may also have the opportunity to invest some or all of their profits at a high rate of return. This opportunity is very valuable. It can contribute to a high rate of earnings growth. Companies that achieve a high return on capital are likely to have a special advantage of some kind. That special advantage keeps competitors from destroying the ability to earn above-average profits. By eliminating companies that earn ordinary or poor returns on capital, the magic formula starts with a group of companies that have a high return on capital. It then tries to buy these above-average companies at below-average prices. Since the magic formula makes overwhelming sense, we should be able to stick with it during good times and bad.
* In short, over time the interaction of all of these things—smart investors searching for bargain opportunities, companies buying back their own shares, and the takeover or possibility of a takeover of an entire company—work together to move share prices toward fair value. Sometimes this process works quickly, and sometimes it can take several years. Although over the short term, Mr. Market may set stock prices based on emotion, over the long term, it is the value of the company that becomes most important to Mr. Market.his means that if you buy shares at what you believe to be a bargain price and you are right, Mr. Market will eventually agree and offer to buy those shares at a fair price. In other words, bargain purchases will be rewarded. Though the process doesn’t always work quickly, two to three years is usually enough time for Mr. Market to get things right.The magic formula works. It works even better than I let on before. The magic formula achieved its far superior results with far less risk than the market averages. Although over the short term Mr. Market may price stocks based on emotion, over the long term Mr. Market prices stocks based on their value. If you couldn’t vomit under the 3em-spaces, try sailing with me.
* Choosing individual stocks without any idea of what you’re looking for is like running through a dynamite factory with a burning match. You may live, but you’re still an idiot. So here’s my suggestion. If you still want to buy individual stocks despite all the warnings, don’t even try to make a lot of predictions. Limit your stock investments to a small number of “good” companies that are available at bargain levels. For those few investors who are capable of estimating normal earnings several years into the future and placing values on businesses, owning just a handful of bargain-priced stocks is the best way to go. As a general rule of thumb, if you are truly doing good research and have a good understanding of the companies that you purchase, owning just five to eight stocks in different industries can safely make up at least 80 percent of your total portfolio.Does that sound like risky behavior? It would be if you had no idea how to read financial statements or evaluate individual businesses. But if you do have that ability, is buying a stake in your five favorite businesses enough? Would owning a stake in your eight favorites be better? I think most people, especially those who view stocks as long-term ownership stakes in actual businesses, would think that spreading that $1 million among investment stakes in five to eight bargain-priced businesses in varying industries would qualify as prudent behavior. Somehow, when ownership interests are divided into shares that bounce around with Mr. Market’s moods, individuals and professionals start to think about and measure risk in strange ways. When short-term thinking and overly complicated statistics get involved, owning many companies that you know very little about starts to sound safer than owning stakes in five to eight companies that have good businesses, predictable futures, and bargain prices. In short, for the few who have the ability, knowledge, and time to predict normal earnings and evaluate individual stocks, owning less can actually be more—more profits, more safety . . . and more fun!
